#summary How to use the TesseractIndic Trainer GUI

==TesseractIndic Trainer GUI Ver 0.1==

===Author: Debayan Banerjee <debayanin@gmail.com>===


*Pre-requisites*


  # Go through http://code.google.com/p/tesseract-ocr/wiki/TrainingTesseract to learn about the manual method. Read once atleast.
  # PyGtk should be installed
  # Install Tesseract 2.03 <Download from http://tesseract-ocr.googlecode.com/files/tesseract-2.03.tar.gz>. Version 2.04 has a bug in the mftraining/cntraining executables that makes it crash.

*Usage*


1) Create 3 files for your script.
	* consonants_conjuncts -> This file contains all the consonants and conjuncts/ligatures for your language
	* post_vowels -> This file contains all the vowel signs for your language
	* rest -> Allt the symbols that do not fit into the 2 categories above, eg, punctuations, independent symbols such as aa, ee etc.

2) Select Langauge, Font, Style (not working yet), Output Folder and Folder with the 3 files above, and click on the 'Train' Button.

3) Rename the 5 files that have been generated,eg, rename intproto to hin.intproto.

4) Now generate the DAWG files from a wordlist of your language.

IMPORTANT: Only add those vowels to the post_vowels file that overlap on a vertical axis with the consonant they are being joined with. 
There may be consonant+vowel combinations that fit in a rectangular box, like কু <means ku in bengali>. Now কু = ক + ু . 
We can not train ু separately because we will not find this symbol in an image isolated. Hence we need to train all consonants + ু . Hence what I need from you is to tell me cases like these where consonant + vowel produces a glyph that overlaps vertically. To make myself more clear কা (ka) has a consonant + vowel too, but ক and া do not overlap on a vertical axis, and can be trained separately, but for কি (ki) ক and ি overlaps vertically and needs to be trained as a single symbol, together. The thing is that the Tesseract segmenter is built for english and it only boxes rectangles.